We talked a little bit about built-in helper functions
and classes but this is something worth going over again.
In CSS, we have WordPress
ships with the screen-reader-text class.
So, take advantage of that.
The screen-reader-text class will hide text visibly
on the page and so that augments say links
or other pieces of content with accessible names or labels,
so we saw that in our AirAlly site
with the Facebook and Twitter logo, those links,
they had the screen-reader-text that was being used.
There's whole documentation over here
and on the WordPress handbook
on the class for screen-reader-text.
What it does and how to use it.
And it was first introduced way back, a decade ago 2009.
It is still around and it's one that a lot of developers
aren't familiar with or don't know about.
If you don't do development yourself,
but you work with WordPress developers,
this would be something really cool to clue them in on,
if they don't already know about it.
This gives you the code of what's in it,
you don't have to write this code, this is already baked in.
This gives you the code for when something receives focus
like those keyboard shortcuts or the skip navigation links.
And then here's an example of that,
what does that look like, what does that do?
That's something to take advantage of.
And then increasingly, our WordPress sites
are becoming highly interactive and powered by JavaScript.
Matt Mullenweg at the 2015 WordCamp US in Philadelphia,
his closing keynote said, his main message was,
learn JavaScript deeply.
And we see that, in fact, WordPress is moving toward more
JavaScript powered interactions
especially with the Gutenberg editor.
And you can run JavaScript
as your front-end
for your WordPress site and hook into WordPress
and it's database and it's different functions
to power things via JavaScript using the API.
With JavaScript, we have a method called wp.a11y.speak
and what that does is, it populates an ARIA live region
with information that you would want to have announced
for assisted technology users.
Like screen readers will announce an ARIA live region
and anything that's changed in there.
This speak method lets you tap into that.
If you are say updating dynamically
the results of your listings on a page,
say you run a university website
and you have a staff directory or a faculty directory.
And you have filter options,
I wanna see everyone in the biology department
or the ceramics department, and so you have a list of say,
75 faculty members that then updates to 14 faculty members
in the biology department.
Then that updates dynamically
and maybe the page hasn't changed
but you can populate this wp.a11y.speak method
using JavaScript when your JavaScript fires
to change the results on the page, you can also say,
now showing 14 of 75 faculty members
in the biology department.
And it would speak that out.
There are examples of this and also the code,
very similarly to the screen-reader-text information.
And then there's a demo site that Sammy
from the WordPress core team had put out there.
I think this is a presentation, but let's see.
Yeah, so there is an example of this as well.
So, we can go back to this after we break
and we can check out what that does.
Because this is really cool
that this is built-in to WordPress
and you can take advantage of that.
So, you don't have to shy away from
some of the advanced features of WordPress
or of web design and development,
some of these new technologies, new frameworks,
you wanna have an Angular front-end or a React front-end
to your WordPress site
and you want it to be highly dynamic and cutting-edge.
You can do that and you can make it accessible too.
Don't shy away from the advanced development techniques.